Array, özel bir sınıftır ve aynı türden çok sayıda veriyi depolamak için kullanılır.
Yeni bir Array oluşturma bir sınıftan nesne oluşturma gibidir.
Declerasyon yapıldığında ortada gerçek bir array henüz yoktur. Derleyiciye
sadece belirtilen tipte bir array oluşturulacağı söylenir.
Arrayleri ilk oluştururken boyutu belirlenir ve boyutu tanımladıktan sonra değiştirilemez.
Tanımlandıktan sonra indeks numaralarına göre depolama yapılabilir.
Array süslü parantez kullanılarak da tanımlanabilir. Süslü parantez kullanılacak ise aynı satırda olmalıdır.
Javadaprimitivedatatyplerden, objectlerden ve kullanıcının oluşturduğu classlarınnesnelerinden array oluşturulabilir.
Arraylerde diğer datatypelar gibi methodların parametresi olabilir. Ayrıca array tipinde returntyp ı olan methodlarda olabilir.
Bu şekilde olduğunda method bir array döndürecektir.
ArrayListde bir classdır. Arrayslere benzerler. Ancak objectleri depolayabilirler. Esnek bir yapıları vardır.
Objectler eklendikçe genişler, çıkartıldıkça daralır.
ArrayList oluşturulurken kaç elamandan oluştuğunu belirtmemize gerek yoktur.
ArrayList ilk oluşturulduğunda otamatik olarak kapasitesi 10 olarak belirlenir.
Eğer bir başlangıç kapasite belirlemek istersek argüman parantezine değer girilebilir.

Array is a special class and we can use it to store lots of data of the same type.
The size of Array is determined when it is first created and cannot be changed after defining the size.
After defining the arrays, we can store them according to their index numbers.
When the declaration is made, there is no real array yet. The compiler is told to creat eonly an array of the specified type.
No memory has been created for the array yet.
Array can be defined using curly braces. If curly braces are to be used, they must be on the same line.
Arrays are structures that can hold more than one value of the same type in a single variable.
Arrays allow us to keep the same type of objects together and to control objects over a single variable.
In Java, arrays can be created from primitive datatypes, objects and class objects created by the user.
Arrays can have parameters of methods like other data types. It can also be in methods that have a return type of array type.
In this way, the method will return an array.
ArrayList is also a class. They are similar to Arrays. However, they can store objects. They have a flexible structure.
It expands as objects are added.
When creating an ArrayList, we do not need to specify how many elements it consists of.
When the ArrayList is first created, its capacity is automatically set to 10.
If we want to specify an initial capacity, a value can be entered in the argument bracket.

